Software Requirement specification: Battletech Campaign Manager

==================
==   OVERVIEW   ==
==================

1. INTRODUCTION

1.1 Purpose

The purpose of this web app is to help players manage / run their battletech classic campaign. The platform, built upon React, will allow players to build forces with battletech units,
create campaigns, assign a force to a campaign and manage that campaign.

It is designed not only to assist in the normal chaos campaign management - which has other competitiors - it is primarily designed to bridge a gap between running a simplified
campaign like the chaos system, and running a campaign on MekHQ. This middleground is designed to give a bit more interesting depth to a campaign while still being easy to maintain.

1.2 Scope

The Campaign Manager will:

• Registered users can add friends, create & customize forces of various units and pilots, and create / manage / and partipate in campaigns
• Facilitate the running of a campaign by managing the player's resources and unit's status persistance
• Allow a few various types of campaigns to suit player's desired depth / complexity
• Within a campaign, allow a player to log a battle and thus record damage to units and track outcomes as they relate to the campaign

Techstack:

• React front end + tailwind
• Backend Flask? REST endpoints + server rendering?
• MySQL db

1.3

Definitions and Abbreviations

1.4

References

React Documentation:
MySQL Documentation:
Tailwind CSS Documentation:

2. OVERALL DESCRIPTION

2.1 Product DESCRIPTION

The system will have only one type of user, who can interact with other users in a few different ways, including keeping a list of friends and see what campaigns and battles they are a part of.

2.2 Product features

1. An FAQ and "simple guide" is going to be key to ease players in.

3. FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS

3.1 Site 

FR-: FAQ

FR-: Comprehensive guide to creating and running a campaign

FR-: Overview on landing page

FR-: View Leaderboards - most frequent players, stats on meks destroyed, best factions, famous units

3.2 User Accounts

FR1: Create and manage user account

FR2: System can send emails to users

FR3: Add freinds via a unique code for each user

FR4: Receive notifications similar to FB notifications on campaign and battle updates

3.3 Force management

FR: View list of forces the player has created

FR5: Create unique forces - most likely with constraints (era, BV-max, etc)

FR6: Add units to force following contstraints assigned

FR7: Customize force and units to some extent (logo for force, unit background, name, pilot names, faction, etc)

3.4 Campaign management

FR: View list of campaigns the player is / has participated in

FR8: Create unique campaigns as the Campaign Owner, selecting campaign type and settings, and force to participate with

FR9: Invite friend(s) to particpate in campaign

FR10: Join a campaign user was invited to and assign a force to a campaign, creating a unique instance of that force

FR11: View campaign progress and overall "score" (campaign home / dashboard)

FR: View past battles in the current campaign

FR12: View force/units in detail from any players in the campaign, including a list of kills and other status

FR13: Manage campaign by spending resources, repairing units etc

FR14: Log a new battle against a campaign

FR: Confirm a battle

FR15: Finalize campaign / conclude





USE CASES

1) A player wants to create a new campaign



The web app is designed to facilitate several different methods of running a classic battletech campaign. Registered users can add friends, create forces consisting of
various units and pilots, and create campaigns. The main purpose of the program is to do the heavy lifting for various level campaigns, from simpler ones to more
advanced ones, taking care of unit management (keeping track of unit's damage, repairs, etc), XP and resource expenditure and more. All campaigns share some common features:

• Force management between battles (repair, rearmament, purchasing new/replacement units, XP expenditure)
• Battle logs (a history of all battles fought in the campaign, with results in each, keeping track of wins, losses, participants, kills, and more)
• Resource Tracking (warchest / cBills, etc)

This means that the system must have comprehensive unit list, a clear UI to add units to build forces and edit and customize them. Creating and custimizing the unit to make it fielded
like the user's very own unit, from name, unit insignia and TO&E, it should be easy to create the unit and build (add units, etc). 

It should be simple to create new campaigns and assign units, invite friends and manage the settings within. It should be clear how each campaign is run during creation. Below is a 
brief summary of the difference between campaigns.

- CHAOS CAMPAIGN (2-10p) - The simplest option, an implementation of the chaos campaign system. Extremely simplified for quick and easy management and minimal admin and upkeep, the
campaign uses a generic warchest currency to handle all rearm and resupply costs, unit purchases and sales, upgrades and more. The admin configures the campaign (setting things like
BV / size, warchest size, era, fog of war, etc) and players battle at their own pace. After a battle, both players enter the results and the system will "marry" and verify the data as 
one battle entry (ensuring accuracy between the two records) that can be referenced at any time. Between battles players can spend warchest to repair, etc.

- ADVANCED CAMPAIGN (2-10p) - An advanced campaign is esentially a halfway point between a chaos campaign and the full campaign experience within cam-ops that is in MekHQ. It is designed to
be grittier and more detailed than a chaos campaign but still be appraochable and managable within a faster timeline. Players manage cBills, individual pilot XP, part availabilty (Though
simplified compared to cam-ops) and time (as a resource for repairs- also simplified). The key concept is that units like mechs and such will bear true scars and players will truly 
feel like each battle is a part of a larger conflict. Pilots may enter injured already, mechs may be missing armor or whole limbs / weapons, and more as unit attrition is front and center,
making for engaging long-term struggle. Victory can be achieved (as set at campaign creation) by either forcing a surrender, 

- CONQUEST CAMPAIGN (2p) - This strict 2p campaign takes the advanced campaign rules and adds a map and turn layer to it. Players fight over a planet with a full hex-map, which starts
with multiple objectives all hidden across the map. The campaign takes place over a number of turns (either a preset limit, or unlimited) that consist of multiple days. Each turn, players
will prioritize a repair and select a target hex to scout / control etc. Forces may be able to scout more hexes, or devote more time to repair, etc. 

---- SUB TYPES ----

- CLASH (2p) - Simple campaign type of just pummeling each other until one force cannot carry on and/or surrenders. Possibly force surrender when warchest / cBills run out.

- DFA / Branching (2p) - A branching sort of campaign with a scenario and two outcomes that lead to the next scenario, depending on if the attack or defender wins.

- OPEN WAR VARIANT (2p+) - One or more objectives are listed and fought over. There is an overall "leaderboard" that tracks control of the planet being fought over with victories
granting more control by percentage over the planet.